---
layout: post
title: "Final Post - Advice to Future CS Students"
---

## What’s One Thing You’d Tell Someone Starting This Course?

One piece of advice I'd give to someone just starting this course would be to get started on your projects early! If you rush yourself while problem-solving, it's a lot harder to think creatively and fix bugs. 

One habit that helped me a lot throughout this course was writing down a list of steps that I thought would help me solve the problem. It makes it a lot easier to get started on the problem and it helps me plan out the logic of my code without writing the code yet.

## What Did You Learn That Might Stick With You?

Coming into this class with very little programming experience, I learned a lot of new concepts. However, I'm most proud of myself for getting better at problem-solving. At the start of this class, figuring out how to solve problems I'd never seen before was challenging. Now I feel a lot more prepared to tackle new problems because I've practiced breaking problems into smaller pieces, referencing information that I've learned, and fixing bugs in my code. I think I've seen the biggest amount of personal growth in my ability to complete the missions. Earlier missions were more difficult, but later missions felt fun (like solving puzzles).

## What Helped You Get Through Challenges?

If you hit a roadblock, my advice would be to use comments to explain the logic of your code. As you go through each line and explain what your code is doing, it becomes more clear where your code needs to go next. If you are still struggling with how a concept works, it's helpful to go back and look at past trainings. Often you can use code directly from the trainings. 

## What’s Next for You?

I hope to take the logical thinking and problem-solving I learned from this class with me to college. I'm interested in public health, which involves a lot of statistics, so I may end up using the skills I learned in this class to analyze data or debug code that analyzes data. Regardless of what I end up doing, I know that the ability to think through complex problems with multiple component parts will be a useful skill for the rest of my life.

---
